# Extraction of a JVS report

Extract a JVS report from CSV files containing the diagnostics matrix
and the output series.

## Usage

``` r
extract_JVS(
  dir = NULL,
  demetra_m = NULL,
  y = NULL,
  sa = NULL,
  s = NULL,
  i = NULL,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- dir:

  path to the directory containing the `demetra_m`, `y`, `sa`, `s` and
  `i` files.

- demetra_m:

  dataframe containing the diagnostics matrix. If missing, the file is
  searched for in `dir`.

- y:

  dataframe containing the initial series. If missing, the file is
  searched for in `dir`.

- sa:

  dataframe containing the seasonally adjusted series. If missing, the
  file is searched for in `dir`.

- s:

  dataframe containing the seasonal component of the series. If missing,
  the file is searched for in `dir`.

- i:

  dataframe containing the irregular component series. If missing, the
  file is searched for in `dir`.

- ...:

  Other parameters to pass to `read_demetra_m` such as `sep` (the
  separator used in the csv file. By default, `sep = ";"`) and `dec`
  (the decimal separator used in the csv file. By default, `dec = ","`)

## Value

a
[`JVS_matrix`](https://inseefr.github.io/JDCruncheR/reference/JVS_matrix.md)
object.

## Details

This function generates a JVS report from a CSV file containing
diagnostics (usually from the file *demetra_m.csv*) and from the csv
files containing the initial series (file *series_y.csv*), the
seasonally adjusted series (file *series_sa.csv*), the seasonal
component of the series (file *series_s.csv*) and the irregular
component of the series (file *series_i.csv*). The *demetra_m.csv* file
can be generated by launching the cruncher (functions
[`cruncher`](https://aqlt.github.io/rjwsacruncher/reference/cruncher.html)
or
[`cruncher_and_param`](https://aqlt.github.io/rjwsacruncher/reference/cruncher_and_param.html))
with the default export parameters, having used the default option
`csv_layout = "vtable"` to format the output tables of the functions
[`cruncher_and_param`](https://aqlt.github.io/rjwsacruncher/reference/cruncher_and_param.html)
and
[`create_param_file`](https://aqlt.github.io/rjwsacruncher/reference/create_param_file.html)
when creating the parameters file. The files *series_y.csv*,
*series_sa.csv*, *series_s.csv*, *series_i.csv* can be obtained from the
associated GUI or R packages. Dates must appear in the first column.

This function returns a
[`JVS_matrix`](https://inseefr.github.io/JDCruncheR/reference/JVS_matrix.md)
object, which is a `data.frame` containing several indications on the
seasonal adjustment of the series.

If all data frames (`demetra_m`, `y`, `sa`, `s` and `i`) are supplied,
the `dir` argument is ignored. Otherwise, `dir` should point to the
directory containing the corresponding CSV files.

## Examples

``` r
# Path leading to the directory containing the needed files

dir_path <- system.file(
"extdata",
"WS/WS_world/Output/SAProcessing-1",
package = "JDCruncheR"
)

# Extract the JVS report from the directory
JVS <- extract_JVS(dir = dir_path)
```
